hi I'm Rob Brown physiotherapist for the
team and today I'm gonna give you the
top 5 tips to stay injury free on the
bike tip number 5 train smart it's all
about quality not quantity
everyone wants to be fast and everyone's
to be fit but if you do too much too
soon
something's gonna give so remember
manage your training load get in contact
with a good coach or a good exercise
physiologist that can help manage your
training load appropriately for your
needs tip number four a good bike fit so
it's not only to help with comfort and
performance but it'll also minimize your
injuries so the first thing we need to
do is have a look at the cleat position
you want your cleat set up so the line
of force goes underneath the ball of
your foot or just a little bit behind
okay if you mess this up you may start
to have some Achilles injuries or
anterior knee pain also the plate should
be pretty much straight and a little bit
of play either side then with the seat
height you don't want to be too high or
too low if you're too high you're going
to extend through the knee develop
hamstring pain and lower back pain as
your pelvis drops and puts more strain
on your lower back if you're too short
then you're gonna jam up your knees not
going to be able to extend properly and
you can start to get of anterior knee
pain forward and back movement of the
seat and also your stem position will
determine how far forward and how far
back you are so if you're too far
forward you'll be stretched out starting
to get neck thoracic pain and lower back
pain and also your overextend through
that lower leg again if you're too
jammed up you'll start to get cervical
pain so get in contact with a good
physiotherapist and a good buy a
mechanist who have experience in doing
good bike fits
and get one done tip number three
stretching to maintain good joint range
of motion and muscle length now in
turbos TT top five tips he adopted a
unbelievable position for the time trial
bike and to see how he is able to get
into that position we have the man
himself der boat so to get into that
position he needs very very good
flexibility and he listens to his physio
and he engages in a really really good
stretching regime off the bike so first
do boat give us your hamstring stretch
beautiful so maintaining a straight back
foot hip flexion okay then we go into
the glutes it's very important to keep
good flexibility through the glutes to
keep the hip flexion or else you'll flex
through your lower back and get lower
back pain thanks turbo the other
important muscles to stretch are the
anterior muscles so because riders spend
a lot of time in flexion 2 up to 7 hours
in a flexed position on the bike when
they get off the bike you want to
stretch the muscles at the front so that
you don't adopt a flexed position as
you're walking around so give us your
hip flexor quad stretch so quadriceps up
the front here then leaning forward you
can engage your stretch your hip flexors
and then very important as well to open
up through here stretch your abdominals
and then you can even lift your arm up
here to get a nice pick side trunks
stretch thanks Doughboy tip number 2 you
must have good movement patterns and
muscle activation this helps not only
with preventing injuries but also helps
with improve performance on the bike in
a really quick way to demonstrate that
is with us quick and easy squat action
so when you squat
you want to keep your back in its
neutral position so a nice little arch
keep the pelvis rotated just a little
bit forward and you want to initiate the
movement with your hips so that engages
your glute muscles as you come down
don't let your back flex okay or else
you'll have too much strain through your
lower back you won't be able to engage
your glutes enough so as you come down
keep that knee from going over the top
of your toes if you go too far forward
you're going to put a lot of strain on
the anterior part of your knee so if I
do it straight on as well you want to
keep your knee middle of your knee in
line with your second toe
if you move inwards you're going to
place a lot of strain on the medial part
of your knee get a lot of tightness down
the lateral aspect of your thigh through
your IT band
TfL etc so keeping that movement on the
bike in the power phase of your pedal
you want to push up from that position
and the number one tip for staying
injury free on the bike is road safety
up until now we've talked about things
that can prevent musculoskeletal
injuries but if you have an accident on
the road something much worse can happen
so be aware on the on the bike out on
the road be aware of pedestrians other
cyclists as well as motor vehicles and
the other thing is to protect your
noggin so always wear a helmet and to
help us with choosing the right helmet
and the right fit is sports director
Matt Wilson yeah so the most important
thing when you when you're getting a
helmet is to is to buy the right size
obviously so you put it on your head and
straightaway you can feel is there much
movement there's not a lot of movement
then you know you've got the right fit
and that's before you do the extra
locking system then obviously lock it up
and then you get should have even less
movement the second most important thing
is the straps
you look at the strips that right and
you'll see that they're they're
symmetrical and nicely you can honestly
balanced so that's right you go down the
bottom to it up and have it nice and
firm a lot of people like to have a bit
of breathing room like that but then
you've got that the helmet no longer
works so always make sure it's very
tight and snug that's it there you go
fantastic thank you very much and that's
our top 5 tips for staying injury free
on the bike and orica-greenedge looks
forward to giving you more tips to enjoy
your cycling thank you